AWS Services
    1. EMR (Elastic MapReduce) - Managed cluster platform for big data processing
    2. Redshift - Fully managed petabyte-scale data warehouse for fast SQL analytics.
    3. Athena - Serverless query data in S3 using standard SQL.
    4. Glue - 	Serverless data integration service; used for ETL (Extract, Transform, Load)
    5. S3 - Scalable object storage for data backup, archival, and analytics.
    6. Lambda - Serverless compute service that runs code in response to events.
    7. Appflow - Managed integration service to securely transfer data between SaaS apps.
    8. Step Function - Serverless orchestration service to coordinate multiple AWS services into workflows.
    9. KDA - Real-time data analytics service to process streaming data using SQL and Flink

Azure Services
    1. HDInsight / Azure Databricks - Managed big data clusters for Hadoop, Spark, Hive, etc.
    2. Azure Data Factory (ADF)	- ETL orchestration and data integration service.
    3. Azure Data Lake Storage (ADLS) / Azure Blob Storage - Scalable object storage and data lake storage.
    4. 	Azure Synapse Analytics - Data warehouse for big data analytics and reporting.
    5. Azure Synapse Serverless SQL Pool - Query data directly from storage using SQL without setting up a database.
    6. Azure Functions - Serverless compute for event-driven workloads.
    7. Azure Data Factory (with connectors) - Data transfer between SaaS apps and Azure services.
    8. Azure Logic Apps / Durable Functions - Serverless workflow orchestration.
    9. Azure Stream Analytics - Real-time streaming data processing and analytics.

Athena Optimization:
    - Using compression technique (snappy, gzip)
    - Using column based file format (parquet, ORC)
    - Partitioning the data

EC2 Instance (Virtual Machine) : Elastic Compute Cloud
    - public ip - connecting from outside
    - private ip - communicate within aws network
    - types - general purpose (start with M, T), compute optimised (start with C), memory optimised (start with R, X)
    - aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-0e449927258d45bc4 --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name ec2-key-pair --security-group-ids sg-0786d9d91d9e48b1d --subnet-id subnet-0e1b29c9b72e49dee